# Developer Documentation

This is intended to explain the Nextflow codebase at a high level for users who want to understand or contribute to it. Rather than a comprehensive API documentation, these docs simply provide a "conceptual map" to help you understand the key concepts of the Nextflow implementation, and to find any specific code sections that you want to inspect in further detail.

The docs are organized into subpages corresponding to Nextflow packages.

## Class Diagram

Each package has a class diagram, abridged and annotated for relevance and ease of use.

Each node is a class. Fields are selectively documented in order to show only the core data structures and the classes that "own" them. Methods are not explicitly documented, but they are mentioned in certain links where appropriate. Links are selectively documented in order to show only the most important classes and relationships.

Links between classes denote one of the following relationships:

- Inheritance: `B` is a subclass of `A`
- Composition: `A` contains `B`
- Instantiation: `A` creates instance(s) of `B` at runtime via `A::f()`

## Tips and Tricks

Build and test locally from a branch (useful for testing PRs):

```bash
# build
git clone -b <branch> git@github.com:nextflow-io/nextflow.git
cd nextflow
make compile

# test
./launch.sh run <script> ...
```

Run tests locally:

```bash
# run all tests
make test

# run individual test
make test module=<nextflow|nf-amazon|...> class=<package>.<class>[.<method>]
```

When a test fails, it will give you a report that you can open in your browser to view the stack trace for each failed test.

You can add `--info` to the `./gradlew` command generated by the Makefile to also see the console output of each test.
