# [short title of solved problem and solution]

- Authors: [who wrote the ADR]
- Status: [draft | proposed | rejected | accepted | deprecated | … | superseded by [xxx](xxx.md)]
- Deciders: [list everyone involved in the decision]  <!-- optional - to be formalised -->
- Date: [YYYY-MM-DD when the decision was last updated]
- Tags: [space and/or comma separated list of tags]

Technical Story: [description | ticket/issue URL] <!-- optional -->

## Summary 

Quick description of the problem and the context. Should not take more than 2-3 lines.

## Problem Statement

Description of the technical problem to solve or to decision to make. This should be concise but provide all required details and the context related to the technical decision to be taken.

## Goals or Decision Drivers

Depending the context define clearly what are the goals or what are the most important decision drivers.

- [driver 1, e.g., a force, facing concern, …]
- [driver 2, e.g., a force, facing concern, …]
- … <!-- numbers of drivers can vary -->

## Non-goals

Define what's out of the scope of this ADR.

## Considered Options <!-- optional -->

- [option 1]
- [option 2]
- [option 3]
- … <!-- numbers of options can vary -->


## Pros and Cons of the Options <!-- optional -->

### [option 1]

[example | description | pointer to more information | …] <!-- optional -->

- Good, because [argument a]
- Good, because [argument b]
- Bad, because [argument c]
- … <!-- numbers of pros and cons can vary -->

### [option 2]

[example | description | pointer to more information | …] <!-- optional -->

- Good, because [argument a]
- Good, because [argument b]
- Bad, because [argument c]
- … <!-- numbers of pros and cons can vary -->


## Solution or decision outcome

Summarize the solution or decision outcome in one-two lines.

## Rationale & discussion

Describe the solution or the decision outcome discussing how decision drivers have been applied and how it matches the declared goals. This section is expected to be concise though providing comprehensive description of the technical solution and covering all uncertainty or ambiguous points.

## Links <!-- optional -->

- [Link type](link to adr) <!-- example: Refined by [xxx](yyyymmdd-xxx.md) -->
- … <!-- numbers of links can vary -->

## More information

- [What is an ADR and why should you use them](https://github.com/thomvaill/log4brains/tree/master#-what-is-an-adr-and-why-should-you-use-them)
- [ADR GitHub organization](https://adr.github.io/)
