
# 24.10

[Nextflow 24.10](https://github.com/nextflow-io/nextflow/releases/tag/v24.10.0) was released on October 27, 2024.

## New features

### Language server

The [Nextflow language server](https://github.com/nextflow-io/language-server) is an implementation of the Language Server Protocol (LSP) for Nextflow scripts and config files. It can be integrated with any editor that functions as an LSP client, and is included as part of the official [Nextflow VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=nextflow.nextflow). See {ref}`vscode-page` for details.

The language server parses scripts and config files according to the {ref}`Nextflow language specification <syntax-page>`, which is more strict than the Nextflow CLI. See {ref}`updating-syntax-page` for details.

(workflow-outputs-second-preview)=

### Workflow outputs (second preview)

The {ref}`first preview <workflow-outputs-first-preview>` of workflow outputs was introduced in 24.04. The second preview makes the following breaking changes:

- The process `publish:` section has been removed. Channels should be published only in workflows, ideally the entry workflow.

- The `directory` output directive has been replaced with the `outputDir` config option and `-output-dir` command line option, which is `results` by default. The other directives such as `mode` have been replaced with config options under `workflow.output.*`.

  In other words, only target blocks can be specified in the output block, but target blocks can still specify directives such as `mode`.

- Target names cannot begin or end with a slash (`/`).

See {ref}`workflow-output-def` to learn more about the workflow output definition.

## Enhancements

### Azure Managed Identities

Nextflow now supports managed identities for the Azure Batch executor. See {ref}`azure-managed-identities` for details.

### Task previous execution trace

The `task` variable in the process definition has two new proprties, `task.previousTrace` and `task.previousException`, which allows a task to access the runtime metadata of the previous attempt. See {ref}`task-previous-execution-trace` for details.

## Breaking changes

- The `all` release of Nextflow has been replaced with the `dist` release, which includes fewer core plugins by default and supports the use of third-party plugins. See {ref}`install-standalone` for details.

- The `nf-ga4gh` plugin has been moved into its own repository, [nextflow-io/nf-ga4gh](https://github.com/nextflow-io/nf-ga4gh). You must specify the `nf-ga4gh` plugin in your Nextflow config to continue to use the TES executor. Refer to the plugin repository for documentation and the latest updates on GA4GH integrations for Nextflow.

- The {ref}`hyperqueue-executor` executor now requires HyperQueue 0.17.0 or later.

- The use of [Grape](https://docs.groovy-lang.org/latest/html/documentation/grape.html) dependencies with the `@Grab` annotation is no longer supported. Code that requires third-party libraries should be migrated to a plugin.

- Automatic spot retries for AWS Batch and Google Batch have been disabled by default. See {ref}`spot-retries-page` for details.

## Deprecations

- The use of {ref}`addParams and params clauses <module-params>` in include declarations is deprecated.

## Miscellanous

- New config option: `aws.client.requesterPays`
- New config option: `google.batch.autoRetryExitCodes`
- New config option: `google.batch.bootDiskImage`
- New config option: `manifest.contributors`
- New config option: `wave.mirror`
- New config option: `wave.scan.mode`
- New config option: `wave.scan.allowedLevels`
- New config option: `workflow.failOnIgnore`
